h1. Shmacros

Pack of shoulda macros for easier model testing.

h2. Install

Note: one of the tests requires mocha, but you have it installed already don't you?
  
  script/plugin install git://github.com/maxim/shmacros.git

h2. Macros

h4. should_accept_nested_attributes_for :foo, :bar

Verifies that accepts_nested_attribtes_for is declared for given attributes.

h4. should_act_as_taggable_on :category_name

Verifies that acts_as_taggable_on is declared for optionally given category.

h4. should_be ClassName

Verifies that tested model is_a?(ClassName).

h4. should_callback :method_name, :after_save

Verifies that given callback (:method_name) is declared for given event (:after_save).

h4. should_delegate :foo, :bar, :to => :elsewhere, :allow_nil => true

Verifies that #delegates is declared for given method to given destination. Also tests :allow_nil functionality introduced in Rails 2.3.3.

h4. should_validate_associated :foo, :bar

Verifies that validates_associated is declared for given attributes.

h4. should_deny_values :country => %w(Africa Europe), :zipcode => "fake_code"

Verifies that tested model is invalid when given attributes are assigned corresponding values.
As opposed to shoulda's similar method, this implementation doesn't compare error messages, just checks for error presence on attribute.

h4. should_allow_values :country => %w(England Russia), :zipcode => "55555"

Verifies that tested model is valid when given attributes are assigned corresponding values.
As opposed to shoulda's similar method, this implementation doesn't compare error messages, just checks for error presence on attribute.

h4. should_allow_mass_assignment_of :foo, :bar, :strict => true

Overrides Shoulda's should_allow_mass_assignment_of to add the convenience option :strict => true. When :strict is true every non-listed attribute is explicitly tested for mass assignment protection.

h2. Contact/Contribute

If you'd like to comment on something -- I'm "@hakunin":http://twitter.com/hakunin on twitter.
My "blog":http://mediumexposure.com has more ways to reach me. 
For contributions simply fork, change, commit, send me pull requests.

h2. License

Copyright (c) 2009 "Maxim Chernyak":http://mediumexposure.com
 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:
 
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.